#Homemade Cider

Grinder setup:<br>
The grinder is a ¾ HP garbage disposal mounted to a small stainless steel wash basin.  We sterilize it with some food grade sterilizer (starsan) before we start the process.  We wash the apples off in tubs to get off most of the nasty stuff and then cut out any rotten/wormy spots on the apples.  After that, we feed the apples into the disposal.  You don’t have to be too fanatic about the apples since they go in cheesecloth in the pressing step.  We’ve got stems, seeds, sometimes leaves and parts of branches depending on how tired we are in the process.  :) After you get a few in there, it starts sending the “disposed” apples out the waste chute.  We capture that pulp in buckets.
 
Press:<br>
The press is built out of 2x6 and 4x4 posts.  We have a cookie sheet at the bottom with a hole in one corner, but we need to make something with higher sides to avoid spillage next year.  We made a frame that fits on the cookie sheet and put cheesecloth over the frame.  We fill the cheesecloth with the pulp that we produced earlier.  We build up 5 or 6 layers of these cheesecloth cakes and use cutting boards in between each one to help give it some stability.  On the top layer we have some 2x6 boards bound together with another cutting board underneath and put this on top of the stack of cheesecloth cakes.  We usually have to wait a bit before doing this as there will be a lot of juice coming out at this point simply due to gravity.  We put the top on, let gravity work for a bit, and then start pressing, using a car jack between the top boards and the frame of the press.  We collect all the juice in buckets and transfer to a big cauldron.
 
Pasteurizing:<br>
We pasteurize the cider in a big cauldron.  All you need to do is get the temp up to about 165 for 10 minutes to kill any badness from things that may have been on or in the apples.  We’ve got a turkey fryer, so we just put the cauldron on that. After that, we transfer the cider into sterilized jars and put on the lids & rings, and transfer to a canner.  I believe it’s about 10 minutes at a gentle boil for quart jars.
 
This year we made 57 gallons of cider from 620 pounds of apples, so roughly 11 lbs of apples per gallon.  When it’s pasteurized and canned, it lasts a long time.  I still have a few quarts from last year’s batch and it tastes great.  If you want to make some hard apple cider, you’d skip the canning process and just transfer the pasteurized cider into your fermentation vessels and start the process.  My buddy said it takes about 10 days for the fermentation process and another few days to do some next step to pull out the yeast.  I’m not sure what that step is since I’m not involved in the brewing.  After that, he lets it sit in the fermentation vessels for about a year to let it mellow out to reduce the sour/tang/bitterness of the apples before he bottles it.